

[Intro] "Hello, and welcome to this short demo where I’ll walk you through the interactive webpage I created to explore linear regression and the impact of randomness on the model’s results."

[Explanation of the Task] "In this assignment, I built a tool that lets users adjust parameters like sample size, mean of noise, variance of noise, and the number of simulations. The goal is to observe how these changes affect the slope and intercept of a linear regression model when there is no true relationship between X and Y."

START WITH PARAMETERS:
N = 50
mu = 5
var = 10
S = 500

[Demonstrating the Output] "Here, you can see a scatter plot generated from one of the random datasets. The plot includes a fitted regression line with its slope and intercept values displayed. Even though there’s no real underlying relationship between X and Y, we can see that the regression line doesn’t always have a zero slope or intercept. This highlights how noise can introduce patterns that the model will pick up on, even if they are spurious."

[Histograms Discussion] "Moving on to the histograms of the slopes and intercepts from S=500 simulations. We can observe that these histograms help us visualize the distribution of regression results across many random datasets. If we look closely, we can see that some slopes and intercepts deviate significantly from zero. This illustrates that even in completely random data, the regression algorithm may produce non-zero values for slope and intercept due to random fluctuations."

[Analysis and Observations] "One interesting pattern I noticed was that as we increase the sample size (N), the variance of the slopes and intercepts tends to decrease. 
NEW SIM WITH (N = 200, mu = 5, var = 10, S = 500)

This makes sense because larger sample sizes generally provide a more accurate estimate, reducing the effect of noise. 

NEW SIM WITH (N = 200, mu = 5, var = 100, S = 500)
On the other hand, increasing the noise variance (sigma²) increases the spread of the slopes and intercepts, showing how higher variability in data can lead to less stable regression results."

[Conclusion: Why Non-Zero Slopes and Intercepts Happen] "So, why does random data sometimes produce non-zero slopes and intercepts in regression? The answer lies in the nature of randomness itself. When we sample small datasets or use data with high noise, random correlations or trends can emerge purely by chance. The linear regression model fits these random fluctuations, leading to non-zero slopes and intercepts."
